---
title: Part II Advice for their Majesties
---

* The court is where you truly become the embodiment of Drachenwald. Here is where you project the Kingdom as you wish it to be, where you make the Kingdom as you wish it to be. The words you speak here become the reality of Drachenwald, whether that be the Law, the raising of those deserving reward or the declaration of war and peace. Your decisions will be made elsewhere, but here is where they become substance. This will be someone's first experience of Drachenwald ceremony, it will be their first recognition for their service or skills and it will be where they are celebrated for their accomplishments.
* Your herald is not just your messenger. When they wear your tabard, they don't just speak for you, they speak **as** you. They are how you project your voice and command before recording devices. Your herald is inviolable, as are the heralds of others. As your herald is treated by others, so are you, and vice versa.
* Unless you have been a herald previously, there will be much unfamiliar about the process and running of courts. Your herald can guide you.
* When speaking with the intent to be heard by more than just an individual, speak louder and slower than you would normally. One of the most frustrating things as an attendee of court is being unable to hear the business being enacted. Your herald speaks as you, so can take the load, or conversely you may wish to speak in person more than is the guide in this book.
* Know the space in which you will be presiding. This applies to such things as obstacles, compactness, acoustics, light levels, etc.
* Be aware of the state of those being called before you you. For some, even a joyful reward can be a stressful experience when singled out in public. There is no requirement that an award be a surprise. Some people enjoy that, some would prefer to be prepared. A summons to court, in as much detail as you think warranted, can be a good option for the latter.
* A specific case of the previous point are newcomers. They will be at their first event, know very few people, most likely still be uncomfortable in their clothes and completely unfamiliar with what to do in court. Surprise is just extra stress and they should be called up after they have had a chance to see how more experienced members approach.
* Courts can be as formal or informal as you desire, and can have different priorities. For example, it may be that rewarding a fighter at the castle gates prior to the assault may be more meaningful than in a formal court. The trade off is that fewer people will be witness.
* Try to avoid long courts: they are not popular, if sometimes necessary. If a court must be long consider building in a break or give permission for people to come and go. Much of the formality of awards and orders will be generally well known, and can be dispensed with when time is at a premium.
* Prepare as much of the court business as far ahead of the event as possible. Know who your herald will be and involve them. It is inevitable that you will not have anywhere near as much spare time at an event as you think. You will have meetings, consultations, tournaments, displays and waylayers. Time to prepare an entire court on the day will be very restricted.